and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show
i'm your host sam dunning and co-owner
over at webchoiceuk.com and today i'm
joined by
phil agnew phil is a senior product
marketer over at hotjar
product marketing ambassador at the pma
and he's host of nudge
the only podcast that's dedicated to
consumer
psychology phil everyone welcome to the
show sir how you doing hi sam
really good thank you thank you so much
for having me and thanks for that warm
warm welcome there
no worries man so looking forward to to
this one um
we're gonna be talking about a fresh
topic for the show we're gonna be
talking all about how
nudges can make our brands really stand
out so first and foremost phil what the
hell is a nudge
what is a nudge good question um so
nudging is
is the idea that we can change the
behavior of
the consumers that we're trying to
influence without big shoves
without huge marketing campaigns without
spending thousands of pounds on
over-the-line marketing
we can do it with small subtle changes
to our messaging
to our design to our positioning
whatever it might be
to subtly push them in the direction
that we want them to go
there are hundreds of examples i'm sure
i'll give you along the way but it's all
about
small interventions that you can make to
your to your marketing to try and
encourage action
got it okay so we're talking kind of
small incremental
little changes that can are we talking
about
kind of helping us achieve our kind of
end result in terms of
whether that's kind of building brand
awareness driving sales driving new
conversions these kind of things right
that's the thing and another thing to
call out sam is that a nudge
it will not ensure action from someone
so it's not going to force somebody to
click your cta or sign up to your
webinar or whatever it might be
but it just increases the likelihood
that they will so it's not a shove it's
a subtle nudge um and to understand and
implement nudges you need a good
experiment culture you need to
understand
you know split testing and a b testing
to see what works and you have to have a
good understanding of the science behind
the psychology as well
once you get those two things it's a
it's a marketer's dream because you've
got the inspiration you need to create
campaigns that really work
and you've got the sort of expertise and
skill set to actually make improvements
that drive change
got it okay and is this something feel
that any business can
implement or is it specific to certain
niches
or tell us a bit more about who can
apply it that's a good question
um my assumption is that there's there's
really no limit about who can apply it
there's probably a few
guardrails that i would encourage every
business to put in place if you are
going to start to use
consumer psychology and behavior science
in your work one of those is what i've
already mentioned so an experimentation
culture
as you said at the start work at hotjar
and i'm really lucky at hotjar to be in
a company that has an incredible
experimentation culture
so they've got heaps of guardrails in
place to make sure that all our
experiments are
not only really well documented so we
can all learn from one another
but they all follow the same framework
so when we are experimenting
um we're doing it in a way which we can
rely on and that we that we know will
get valuable results statistical
significance that sort of thing
so getting that in place is important
for any business and getting that set up
is useful
it's often worth pulling in an expert to
help you set up a good experimentation
culture as well so if you're thinking
about it do look at that
and then the other thing is just
understanding the science so
understanding some of the consumer
psychology and the baby science as i
mentioned
and that you don't need a degree to do
that you don't need to go get a master's
degree
um you probably need a bit of a love and
interest
in in the field and you probably want to
be a bit of a keen reader as well
so if you're reading books like
influenced by geladini choice factory by
richard shotton
blind site by princeton magnet magnum
and you know these are books that will
really help you understand the field and
then you can sort of build out your
knowledge from there
start testing things figure out what
works and applying to your business
makes sense okay um so we'll dive into a
bit more about how we can use nudges
effectively for our businesses in a bit
um now moving to the standout part of
the show
why is it that you think that most
marketing tends to be quite generic
when we look at a lot of companies
perhaps new companies that perhaps don't
have in-house marketing teams or
maybe just want to bring something to
the market fast they
their website headlines their ad copies
what they're putting out just tends to
blend in with the rest of the noise
um what's what's the science behind this
why is it important that we do stand out
phil
so i think the first thing to mention
here is risk
now when you're a marketer you have a
risky job
the the content the marketing the
messaging the positioning
you create is seen and analyzed by the
wider world
and this is a risky job because it means
that if you get something wrong it's
visible to
to many many eyeballs and that risk
means that
we tend to take quite risk-averse
actions one of the
clear things that marketers tend to do
is to look
at competitors in the marketplace see
what appears to be working in their
field
take elements of those campaigns and
apply them to their own campaigns
and you'll see this um in every single
industry
so if you look at gambling firms
they all sponsor the same entities they
all sponsor premier league and
championship clubs in the uk
equivalent in other parts of europe so
19 out of the 24 championship clubs in
the uk sponsored by gambling firms
this is the shirt sponsors the main
sponsor 11 of the 20 premier league
clubs same for laga brands
they all have over the period over the
last uh
10 years sponsored the league cup the fa
cup the champions league and the premier
league this is this is really really
common
but it's not just those sort of big
advertising fields it's other places as
well so if you look at
the sas industry for example there is a
huge
amount of sas companies that have very
similar designs at the moment
so cartoony abstract style designs we've
all pictured them on websites and
landing pages it's very very similar
same can be said about pricing everybody
has
three tiers with the middle one being
the most popular same can be said about
website design and there are benefits to
this
there are benefits to this because
you're building on a mental model that
consumers understand
there's also a massive negative as well
eight out of ten
product launches fail according to hbr
of marketing budget is wasted according
to e-commerce there's a lot of
inefficiency in our job there's a lot of
uneffective marketing and i think a
problem with that is because
a lot of marketing blends in a lot of
marketing is not unique and if you want
the crystal clear number one example of
this
go look at any advert for a watch
and you'll you'll look at that advert
not only will it look amazingly similar
because they will look similar anyway
but the watch will be set to the same
time in every single advert that's how
much we like to copy competitors
and stay at risk of s oh well i've never
noticed that well they're always the
same time are they
always about 10 minutes past 10. it's
the same from
omega to apple watch as well amazing all
right so getting this this is
interesting so getting into the wrist
side of things like you say
um i'm sure this many startups are the
same that perhaps they're
bringing a product to market and they're
they're just thinking that these
competitors have got some cool aspects
whether it is on their website
marketing print material design material
ad material
why not just copy what what they're
doing that seems to work they seem to
generate good revenue
what what's the problem here phil is it
just that it doesn't break through the
noise is it because our
prospects our customers have just seen
it a hundred times before is that
is that what the issue is here and is
that what the problem is or is it
something a bit deeper
the problem really sam is the the
science tells us something different
so if you look at the science behind
what attracts attention
and what generates recall blandness
and sameness isn't that so this goes way
back to 1933 with a researcher called
hedwig von resteroff
she was doing a lot of studies around
understanding memory and recall in
berlin at the time
and she gave participants long lists
long sequences
of letters to remember but hidden well
not hidden just within those
lists of sequences of letters to
remember so abc
wds all these random different letter
combinations
within those combinations there would be
three numbers to remember
as well she would ask participants at
the end what they remembered
and the numbers were 30 times more
likely to be remembered
so when something is distinct we are
more likely to remember it
richard shotton brilliant uh behavioral
scientist who applies this stuff to
modern day marketing
did the same study but for brands in
2018 he gave participants
a long number of different um automotive
brands
um to remember so all brands from an
automotive company said look at all
these different logos from the
automotive companies these are
well-known brands
bmw you know you know them yourself but
within there
he put a fast food brand so we put one
distinctive brand one brand that stood
out one which was different from the
rest
that brand was four times more likely to
be remembered
wherever we look there are examples of
distinctiveness paying off if you put a
post-it note
on a irish tax collector survey
it generates double the amount of
respondents when you send that post
in a letter same can be said for
australia tax collectors as well they
put a big stamp on their letter saying
urgent they generated
one million more dollars in um tax
collection and stopped late fines going
through
countless examples of where
distinctiveness pays off wherever we
look time and time again it seems to
work
problem is it's a risky thing but we
should be changing our mental model here
we shouldn't see
being distinct as risky we should
actually see it as the least risky
option because if you don't stand out
if you copy competitors you'll only
blend in and you'll only be
far less likely to be recalled
remembered and acted upon
yeah yeah it makes sense and i guess
especially if you're in a saturated
market where there's a heck of a lot of
competition
if you're just doing the exact same as
everyone else whether that is with i
don't know tv ads radio ads
your website your digital marketing and
it all kind of blends into one like you
said
what's what's to make someone use you
rather than a competitor that's
perhaps doing what you do maybe better
maybe they've got a better team maybe
they've got better support whatever
um what's making you stand out so are
there some best practices phil
that we need to consider before just
saying
well everyone else has got 10 past 10 on
their watch ad i'm going to do 12 past
and i'm gonna have a green watch and i'm
gonna do it whilst i'm on airplane
um is it is it going back to the nudge
um reference where we need to do
everything kind of in small chunks or
are there some best plays here all right
big time and
you know i'm i'm making it sound quite
easy and then there are elements of this
which are easy you know it's it's always
worth
checking yourself before you blindly
copy a competitor that's that's an easy
best practice and that's quite easy to
do
but to be distinct and to create
marketing that really resonates
is very difficult the best practice here
is to go back
to your positioning um april dunford's
wrestling extensively about good
positioning so it's louis grenier who i
know you've had on the show sam
um and and really the idea here is to
find
what you do what what your product does
what your service does
which is you unique to the audience
you're servicing
so with different with distinctiveness
it's not about being different
it's not about just changing your your
clock type to 1030 rather than 10 past
10. that won't work
it's about finding how you uniquely
service the audience you're going after
and about how you can talk about that in
a unique way that nobody else can talk
about because you're servicing that
audience
in a very unique way great example that
i love of
just unique positioning which doesn't
seem too distinct but it just stands out
is loom so loom is a company a sas
company which allows you to quickly
record videos of yourself
upload them to their site and share them
with other people
now the typical way a marketer would
talk about that or the typical way the
market has talked about that sort of
technology before
is to say we have got high quality video
which automatically uploads
um to the internet heaps of memory which
you don't even have to pay for it's free
you just talk about all of the technical
benefits
of the product but loom went beyond that
they understood what they
uniquely offered to their audience and
they were able to create positioning
which was actually quite distinct
so rather than saying we give you really
high quality video recording
they say you never need to have a
meeting again or they say
you never need to do a phone call again
so it's finding that unique message that
you can use to your audience and that's
difficult
that involves interviewing at least
seven of your customers or your
ideal customer personas trying to
understand the language they use trying
to understand that the problems you
solve and then framing your message
in that term yeah exactly like you said
if you haven't yet check out the the
episode i think it was
one or two prior to this with louis
where we live grenier where we did talk
about basically i'm
interviewing idle customers and
identifying what he called the bleeding
neck problem in your industry
um and then utilizing that
in your key marketing message right so a
bit like
you touched on there because at the end
that they feel i guess you'll agree with
me here is if
if people go on to a site or an at see
an ad of yours and you're just rambling
on about features and benefits
everyone's heard of a hundred times an
industry jargon it usually just it's all
me me me
send you to sleep whereas just like you
ransomed their loom have probably pulled
on something that their
audience especially during covid they're
probably sick and tired of endless
meetings
um so it sounds like they've really
pulled on something that's
a massive frustration for their
customers
and just played on that with their their
headline their their usp their tag line
and it sounds like it's worked really
nicely so is that what we need to do
here
it's exactly right sam and i think i
think part of it is an element of
confidence as well
so you'll notice this a lot whenever you
go onto a
a site a website which is run by an
individual
like um perhaps sam like the website
that you'll run
for the company you own you know there's
there'll be elements of that which which
stand out far more
the messaging will be a bit more punchy
the language will
catch your attention a bit and i think
that comes from confidence
when you're running your own business
when you're running your own
project it's easier to be confident to
be a bit less risk-averse and to be a
bit out there with the messaging you're
doing
when you get into larger organizations
where there are more stakeholders where
there are more bits of feedback where
there's a ceo a hippo in the room saying
oh i'm not quite sure we should do this
we'll competitor x does it this way or
our stakeholders or our shareholders do
it this way
it's much more difficult to be confident
so a big thing that i would advise
marketers to do is to educate themselves
on this stuff to really go out there and
understand how consumers make decisions
to understand upon restaurant effect to
understand why
distinctive marketing pays off and then
you can start to be the advocate for
this within your business
there must be somebody at loom i imagine
maybe i'm completely wrong here
but i do hate that somebody at liam who
understands that who understands the
value of distinctive positioning
has advocated for that and that's
allowed them to be out there with this
marketing and
loom's one example there are there are
hundreds of others one of my favorites
is
you'll know this company sam compare the
the market in the uk
so compare the market or utilities
comparison
provider so you go to compare the market
to see what's the best deal you can get
on your energy supply
it's kind of boring it's not
particularly interesting but 10 years
ago
there was a huge rush in this space as
the websites became
massively popular and the ability to
switch between energy providers and
utility providers became easier there
was a big rush to
for these types of sites and there were
five or six major sites competing for
market share confused.com
comparethemarket.com
moneysupermarket.com heaps of others
those in the uk will recognize all of
these brands and at the time
10 years ago all of their marketing was
identical
they all spoke about how they can save
you more money
about how they can get you quotes faster
than anybody else and about
how their website is simple and easy to
use
that will sound really familiar to
anyone in sas because we use the exact
same benefits
we're cheap we're easy to use we've got
great ux you know all these things we
all say the same thing
and then compare the market somebody or
the agency that they were working with
said
look the real winners here aren't going
to be the people who just shout about
the same benefits the real
winners here are going to be people who
maybe have a bit of confidence and try
and stand out so they completely changed
their marketing campaign
they created a a meerkat who complained
about
the fact that comparedthemarket.com was
stealing
seo and clicks from his site the meerkat
site which was compare the meerkat.com
and as we all know a 10-year 20-year
15-year however long will go on for it's
still going today marketing campaign
kicked off
which smashed all expectations within
eight weeks they hit their 12
month goals and they became the number
one searched for site within that market
and that's a real lesson for sas because
it's it's a very similar
model which is going on here lots of
companies
all competing for market share talking
about the same benefits
one company breaks the mold and actually
tries to do something different
captures market share very very quickly
do you know what's really funny about
this story though
all of those other companies i mentioned
moneysupermarket.comconfuse.com they all
did the exact same model
so they all chugged away their benefit
led value-led messaging as well and they
all created opera singers that talked
about
utility providers they created men
dressed in high heels dancing and
talking about the great deal that
they've got all of this stuff so
um it's it's fascinating it's it's
really interesting but when it do when
done well
hey the results speak for themselves
yeah yeah yeah that's that's a really
awesome example i like that
um cool so moving on phil
is there a way that let's say we've kind
of
uniquely put together a way that we can
say that this is how we serve
our audience rather than just going for
the traditional route of
listing features and benefits we've got
some kind of unique
value proposition here to make our brand
stand out somehow
do is the next step to start looking at
some nudges that we can implement
um or is there something else that we
should need to consider first off
yeah i think if we're talking about
positioning the next step has got to be
to speak to
to customers which is interesting from
like a consumer psychologist
standpoint you could read a lot of books
about consumer psychology and think i
never need to speak to a customer again
because i've got all this information
on how they're oh now our brains work so
i should never speak to a customer but
if you speak to any
consumer psychologist worth their salt i
spoke to patrick fagan on my show who
was previous employee at cambridge
analytica you know this
this is somebody who may never think
that they actually have to interview a
customer they've got all this data and
he's
a firm advocate of actually speaking to
customers there's so much you can learn
from talking directly to them
um the golden rule of speaking to at
least seven i think is vital
to check your positioning to see if if
your messaging will resonate
and then that experimentation culture
then actually testing out your messaging
whether that's on split test landing
pages or facebook ads or wherever you
want to do it that's another vital
element to it
nudges is i don't think it's something
you sprinkle on
at the end like you know bit of icing
sugar on top of a cupcake
for me nudging is is it's really the
ingredients behind
all of the marketing sort of ideas and
my understanding of how marketing works
so whenever i'm working on positioning
or messaging
at hotjar or maybe for my own projects
i'm constantly referring back to some of
the biases that i know consumers have
and i'm
i'm using that to give me a leg up in
the in the work i'm creating
so it's very easy to start writing an
email
or to start writing a blog without real
purpose in mind without real
understanding of a goal you're trying to
achieve
but if you go in there with an idea of a
bias that you maybe want to utilize or a
nudge that you want to
you want to embrace then you can
actually start to create content i think
resonates a bit a bit more
so yeah examples i've been i've been
trying this out with the podcast i run
so nudgepodcast.com
um i'm doing lots of different
experiments to see if i can grow the
audience size and to test out some of
the stuff that i talk about on the show
social proof is a great example so
social proof isn't just logos
on your website it's much more than that
that's endless science which says we
follow the actions of others
if you walk down the street and you see
five people looking into
a shop window you cannot resist looking
into that shop window
so showing people that others are taking
an action can be
really compelling can really drive
action themselves so i've tried this
in my own work very recently i i hit a
hundred thousand downloads my podcast
so i thought well that's great social
proof let's test that in a split a b
test uh on an email header try it out
with my email list
lo and behold if you put um the name of
the podcast which which
the episode which just launched and then
put in brackets oh
plus we just hit 100 000 downloads that
email header with the
social proof in it got double the amount
of open rates i did it with reddit
ads recently as well so i tried to read
it out ad out for
outfit nudge podcast both of the ads had
the exact same copy
so he said listen to nudge podcast great
podcast for
consumer psychology actually you you
said it best at the start of the show so
it's pretty much
the the message that you learned at
start the show but the thing i changed
the thing i split to test social proof
was the image
one just had an image of the podcast
logo another had the image of a logo
surrounded by some of the most recent
reviews i've got
okay if you understand the science
you'll know that this should be more
successful
and it is the click-through rate was
higher the cost per click was lower
the engagement was much higher and
ultimately that
one tweak to that advert drove much
higher results for
for a much lower cost and so it's it's
not this sort of sprinkling on top
for me nudging is the inspiration that i
use for
multiple different types of of campaigns
and and at the core
of of the majority of campaigns i put
together both personally and a hot
shower as well
nice so it sounds to me a little bit
like conversion rate optimization
um in a from a website guys
point of view making whether it is like
you say feel
small changes to your landing page
whether it's changing your headline
adding different forms of social proof
whether that's reviews
whether it's testimonials maybe you've
got a case study video maybe you've got
a podcast review whatever it might be
changing the color schemes of things
changing your call to action button
maybe from
submit the inquiry to get your free
quote now
um and all these kind of subtle changes
that just
whether it's a landing page boost
conversion rates whether like you quoted
on um
changing the email heading or the ad
heading
just small tweaks that can kind of draw
people in
at that level of perhaps other people
are
enjoying this um and uh
example i sometimes like to use which
i'm pretty sure i stole someone and
there's
with social proof it's like when you're
abroad when you're on holiday
so i can say for example when i was in
thailand a couple couple years ago
with my missus we were just walking past
a bunch of restaurants and it's that
dilemma when you're walking down the
street you never know which one to eat
at because first of all you've never
been down the street before
and it's like what food do we want and
then you usually tend to go for
you skip the restaurants that are really
really quiet and then you go for the one
that's kind of got
they've sat people purposely right at
the front to give you that feeling that
it's busy
that other people are enjoying it that
it must be great
so psychologically you think well that
food must be awesome turns out this one
was
but we still went in there because of
the social proof
exactly hey and if you take a world
famous
uh violinist who's selling out the royal
albert hall
for tickets that cost 100 pounds plus
put them in hyde park corner and have
them perform in the cheap station they
won't make more than 10 pounds
social proof is is massive um and and
you know conversion rate optimization is
is great it's definitely an element of
nudging and
you know hotjar really does help with
conversion rate optimization and we use
it a lot and
do that sort of understanding and gain
that understanding but i do think
understanding
behavior science and consumer psychology
it gives you more than just
the small improvements so i mentioned
this to you at the start uh sam but
you know there's this whole idea of
reciprocity so chalodini talks about
this this is one of his six
laws of of persuasion and this idea of
reciprocity if you give
something you are more likely to get
something in return
and this idea can help inspire campaigns
that can really drive growth for your
business so i took this idea and thought
how can i
inspire a bit of reciprocity amongst my
podcast listeners
so i thought well why don't i try and
create a course
um a course which can actually help
combine all of the different things i'm
talking about on the podcast
and put it into one easy well it's
around five hours length for the course
but one solid place where you can get an
understanding of all of the things that
you need to know to understand the
basics of consumer psychology
i did it's called the science of
marketing course you can check it out by
going to nudgepodcast.com and clicking
on courses
but i wanted to use a bit of reciprocity
i wanted to use this nudge to help me
grow the show so rather than
rather than charge for the course i
thought well
i'll give the course away for free but
i'll
make sure that in order to get access
listeners have to leave a review of the
podcast
so that little bit of reciprocity that
little bit of play-off
since launching the course i've got over
a hundred five-star reviews for the
podcast a huge number of reviews which
you know push nudge up there with some
of the reviews of shows as well
because it takes something way bigger to
get reviews for podcasts
exactly and way bigger than the size of
my show should justify i'm
hitting above my weight there i wouldn't
have known to do that i wouldn't have
had the confidence to do that
if i hadn't read about challadini's rule
of reciprocity if i hadn't understood
the science behind reciprocity if i
hadn't been confident that this sort of
thing would work
it's a much bigger player it's a much
bigger risk it's it's not an
optimization it's
it's a it's a it's a big campaign but
having an understanding understanding
the science behind how consumers makes
decisions gave me the confidence to do
that and fortunately it paid off
nice nice and just uh to wrap things up
phil
i think you've got a few nudge examples
that businesses can think about perhaps
if the
new smaller startup the uh was it the
top three you've got that we can perhaps
look consider straight away
i can give you i'll give you a dozen sam
let's go for 100.
we'll go for a few okay for three uh
this theory i really like uh
distinctiveness which we've talked about
already
so one restaurant effect you know find
ways to make your brand distinct
you know anything your messaging
distinctive will stand out
second is anchoring anchoring is
incredible wow if
you're if you're able to to anchor your
price
you'll massively drive change there are
endless studies that show this i think
my favorite is from courtrooms
there was one study in a courtroom where
um
juries were shown three different uh the
exact same case time and time again the
only difference was the lawyer would ask
for
payouts of different sizes so this was a
case where
somebody was being sued and they were
asking for a payout um
in one of the cases the lawyer asked for
like a hundred dollars the other ten
thousand dollars the other 100 million
dollars the other a billion dollars you
know
extreme differences in the amounts that
the lawyer was asking for in terms of a
payout you think there's no way this
will affect the jury you know these
differences are so different
that there's no way the jury will change
the amount that they think that should
be paid out to this individual
it's not true anchoring has an effect
and when you ask for a higher sum
the amount they actually paid out
increased by two three four times even
though that high sum was ridiculous
so find ways to anchor your price find
ways to anchor your product steve jobs
is the king of this go look at his
ipad keynote speech because what he does
is he stands on stage and he says
so many of you in the audience thought
this would cost 999
you know we've packed so much technology
into your ipad we did so much it's a
computer and a phone in one
it's reasonable to think it would cost
999 dollars and
he presses the the ticker and behind him
the 999
smashes into a thousand pieces and the
real price of 499 appears
and the crowd are whooping the crowd are
cheering what's hilarious
is the majority of people in those crowd
actually predicted it would cost around
three nine nine or two nine nine just a
couple of days before it was only a few
that said nine nine nine
is that psychology based as well phil so
it's just sex
up with that real high mark and then
when you see the um the result it kind
of sets you free because i think
i saw a video the other day of something
similar actually i think um is it the us
shopping center costco they put real
high value items right at the front of
the store that no one will ever buy
so like massively expensive tvs
electronics all that kind of stuff
just to anchor you as soon as you go in
the store you think well that's
expensive and then you start shopping
you're like well this stuff all seems
cheap in comparison like i'm gonna buy
my groceries i'm gonna buy this i'm
gonna buy that
i think they also do it with their
chickens but they do those actually
really cheap
so you get a cheap chicken and then i
encourage you to have happy shopping
experiences you carry on
so there's a lot of brands doing this in
quite uniquely unique ways
that's a classic one um that's moving
into
price decoy effect the economists were
famous for this they first did this
check out um dan ariely's predictably
irrational book he first picked this up
back in 2008
and he found that the economist when
they were selling their different
subscription packets they would have the
magazine only they would have magazine
and online
and then online only you would think the
magazine
and online would be most expensive
you're getting the two things there
but they actually charged the same
amount for the online only
think about that online only so you're
not getting the magazine and you're
paying the same amount
so nobody's going to go for the online
only so why have they done this well
it's a decoy
by putting it as the same price it makes
that price seem more reasonable
and dan dan ariely tested this with
students he showed
that pricing and then pricing where the
online only was removed
yeah and when you see the pricing with
the decoy effect people are far more
likely to pay for the magazine and
online offer because it looks good it's
like oh it's the same price as online
only it must be good
it's just a decoy and it just encourages
you to spend more
so price decoy affected another one my
final one i know we said three is is
scarcity
i don't think i have to rave about
scarcity on the show marketers will know
it
but highlighting how your product is
scarce can have a huge huge impact
the day that concord announced that they
were stopping flying the
the amount of demand for those flights
went through the roof nothing changed
there was no improvement in the service
no improvement in speed time no
improvement in the meal you would get
it just became a scarce resource so
putting some sort of limit some sort of
scarcity around your product
can can have a huge effect my favorite
example here what if i've got time for
one more time yeah
go ahead man supermarket in iowa
uh experimenters wanted to encourage
people to to buy soup
so they put big banners up in the
supermarket saying buy soup
that works marketing works um if you put
those banners up people buy around three
cans of soup on average of those who buy
brilliant pat ourselves on the back of
marketers we know what we're doing
put signs up if if you put an asterisk
on that and say sales limited to 15 cans
per person which is ridiculous by the
way because nobody was buying 15 cans
if you do that the amount of soup that
people bought went up to four and a half
cans
just with that tiny asterisk just with
that terms of condition and i love that
example
because it's basically shouldn't have
had any effects i wonder if supermarkets
did that when covered first hit the uk
and everyone was going mad on buying
toilet rolls
limited to three or four or something
like that yeah there's a big
big backlash in the behavior science
community which actually said this this
won't work it'll encourage more sales
especially if the limit is really high
like oh limited to 10
toilet rolls like now you're just going
to encourage people to buy more are
there any rules to that
because um i think that some companies
take
scarcity a bit too far um
and i guess there probably is there's
probably a line where people just think
that you're taking the piss now
you've said this as an offer for the
last year um definitely isn't
um so are there any kind of things that
we need to consider before we start
saying like
if we're sending out a course on email
that there's only five spots left and
then people see that across five emails
and they're thinking
something's not quite right here well
yeah don't lie
would be the first rule i think that's
rule number one i think
you know like as marketers we should
know more than anyone how annoying it is
to get marketing emails which just seem
like and i think
that if you want to build a community an
audience a
a community of customers that actually
rely on you then
you just got to stop lying um i would
advise a lot of people to check out
near eel's book hooked many of you will
already have he talks a lot about the
ethics behind
using nudging and behavior science and
he's got a really good framework
to just encourage you to check and see
if what you're doing is is ethical and a
lot of it relates to
is this something that is actually
improving somebody's
somebody's experience would it improve
your experience
and is it the sort of thing that you
would want to experience yourself
if the answer to all of those isn't yes
then
the thing you're trying to implement is
is probably not worth doing and it's
probably a bit unethical
yep love it good stuff we'll have to
check out that book leave it in the show
notes well that
is a good way to enfiel look really
enjoyed the conversation sir
please do tell us more about how we can
connect with you how we can learn from
you and the best way to get in touch
yeah so um for the podcast
nudgepodcast.com search for nudge
wherever you listen to podcasts hit
subscribe
um sign up to the email list if you go
to the website as well that way you can
get an email every time a new episode
goes live and i'll drop some tips in
there as well which are quite useful and
handy to get
follow me on twitter p underscore acne
that's a g
n e w uh post heaps on there about
nudging and also all of the new episodes
um same on linkedin if you want to
follow me there and then hotjar
fantastic tool for understanding and
improving and implementing nudges and
seeing how they work on your website
so do go and check out hot jar we've got
a free freemium product which anyone can
use forever
on their site it's well worth doing um
that's just hotjar.com
so yeah thanks so much for having me on
sam no worries phil really enjoyed the
chat
we'll put all of those links over at
businessgrowth.marketing in the show
notes
and so thanks again for coming on and if
you enjoyed the show be sure to hit
subscribe wherever the heck you get your
podcast from we
interview business leaders each and
every week to provide actionable
marketing tips
to grow your business and grow your
revenue and with that
we'll catch you on the next episode